# CarND-Path-Planning-ProjectSelf-Driving Car Engineer Nanodegree Program### ReflectionThe code contained in this repository has been developed to safely navigate a car around a track on the [Term 3 Simulator](https://github.com/udacity/self-driving-car-sim/releases/tag/T3_v1.2).In order to determine a safe route around the track the first thing the code does is to determine the location of surrounding vehicles in all lanes. This is done using the sensor data passed from the simulator to determine the [lane that each surrounding car is in](https://github.com/lewisHome/CarND-Path-Planning-Project/blob/75125790509f432212514392f7f33e401897214a/src/main.cpp#L318-L337) and to determine how [far forward and behind](https://github.com/lewisHome/CarND-Path-Planning-Project/blob/13331bc3adbee2d91d0453dca58cf0d5bcc92d9a/src/main.cpp#L339-L390) the closest vehicles are in each lane.Once gaining an understanding of the location of the surrounding vehicles, decisions are made to ensure the vehicle safely navigates around them. The first step is to determine a [safe speed.](https://github.com/lewisHome/CarND-Path-Planning-Project/blob/13331bc3adbee2d91d0453dca58cf0d5bcc92d9a/src/main.cpp#L394-L416) If there is no vehicle in front of the driven vehicle then speed is set to just below the speed limit, otherwise the speed is matched to the vehicle in front. If the vehicle in front is slowing the driven vehicle down to much then the driven vehicle looks for a [safe opportunity to make a lane change.](https://github.com/lewisHome/CarND-Path-Planning-Project/blob/13331bc3adbee2d91d0453dca58cf0d5bcc92d9a/src/main.cpp#L418-L442) Upon choosing a lane to safely enter the vehicle [slows down slightly and gradual changes its lane heading](https://github.com/lewisHome/CarND-Path-Planning-Project/blob/13331bc3adbee2d91d0453dca58cf0d5bcc92d9a/src/main.cpp#L450-L467) to enter the next lane. This ensures that accelerations and jerk do not exceed pre-set comfort limits.Upon determining a safe speed and lane for the driven vehicle to travel along a path is calculated. Up to this point all decisions are made in Frenet space but at this point [sparse way points are calculated in cartesian space.](https://github.com/lewisHome/CarND-Path-Planning-Project/blob/13331bc3adbee2d91d0453dca58cf0d5bcc92d9a/src/main.cpp#L502-L504) and a [spline is generated](https://kluge.in-chemnitz.de/opensource/spline/) to smoothly move the vehicle from through the sparse points. Path generation using a spline generated from sparse waypoints largely follows the method from the [class notes](https://github.com/awbrown90/CarND-Path-Planning-Project) whereby dense waypoints are generated by interpolating points from the spline at a spacing corresponding to the calculated speed of the vehicle.### SimulatorYou can download the Term3 Simulator which contains the Path Planning Project from the [releases tab] (https://github.com/udacity/self-driving-car-sim/releases/tag/T3_v1.2).### GoalsIn this project your goal is to safely navigate around a virtual highway with other traffic that is driving +-10 MPH of the 50 MPH speed limit. You will be provided the car's localization and sensor fusion data, there is also a sparse map list of waypoints around the highway. The car should try to go as close as possible to the 50 MPH speed limit, which means passing slower traffic when possible, note that other cars will try to change lanes too. The car should avoid hitting other cars at all cost as well as driving inside of the marked road lanes at all times, unless going from one lane to another. The car should be able to make one complete loop around the 6946m highway. Since the car is trying to go 50 MPH, it should take a little over 5 minutes to complete 1 loop. Also the car should not experience total acceleration over 10 m/s^2 and jerk that is greater than 10 m/s^3.#### The map of the highway is in data/highway_map.txtEach waypoint in the list contains  [x,y,s,dx,dy] values. x and y are the waypoint's map coordinate position, the s value is the distance along the road to get to that waypoint in meters, the dx and dy values define the unit normal vector pointing outward of the highway loop.The highway's waypoints loop around so the frenet s value, distance along the road, goes from 0 to 6945.554.## Basic Build Instructions1. Clone this repo.2. Make a build directory: `mkdir build && cd build`3. Compile: `cmake .. && make`4. Run it: `./path_planning`.Here is the data provided from the Simulator to the C++ Program#### Main car's localization Data (No Noise)["x"] The car's x position in map coordinates["y"] The car's y position in map coordinates["s"] The car's s position in frenet coordinates["d"] The car's d position in frenet coordinates["yaw"] The car's yaw angle in the map["speed"] The car's speed in MPH#### Previous path data given to the Planner//Note: Return the previous list but with processed points removed, can be a nice tool to show how far alongthe path has processed since last time. ["previous_path_x"] The previous list of x points previously given to the simulator["previous_path_y"] The previous list of y points previously given to the simulator#### Previous path's end s and d values ["end_path_s"] The previous list's last point's frenet s value["end_path_d"] The previous list's last point's frenet d value#### Sensor Fusion Data, a list of all other car's attributes on the same side of the road. (No Noise)["sensor_fusion"] A 2d vector of cars and then that car's [car's unique ID, car's x position in map coordinates, car's y position in map coordinates, car's x velocity in m/s, car's y velocity in m/s, car's s position in frenet coordinates, car's d position in frenet coordinates. ## Details1. The car uses a perfect controller and will visit every (x,y) point it recieves in the list every .02 seconds. The units for the (x,y) points are in meters and the spacing of the points determines the speed of the car. The vector going from a point to the next point in the list dictates the angle of the car. Acceleration both in the tangential and normal directions is measured along with the jerk, the rate of change of total Acceleration. The (x,y) point paths that the planner recieves should not have a total acceleration that goes over 10 m/s^2, also the jerk should not go over 50 m/s^3. (NOTE: As this is BETA, these requirements might change. Also currently jerk is over a .02 second interval, it would probably be better to average total acceleration over 1 second and measure jerk from that.2. There will be some latency between the simulator running and the path planner returning a path, with optimized code usually its not very long maybe just 1-3 time steps. During this delay the simulator will continue using points that it was last given, because of this its a good idea to store the last points you have used so you can have a smooth transition. previous_path_x, and previous_path_y can be helpful for this transition since they show the last points given to the simulator controller with the processed points already removed. You would either return a path that extends this previous path or make sure to create a new path that has a smooth transition with this last path.## TipsA really helpful resource for doing this project and creating smooth trajectories was using http://kluge.in-chemnitz.de/opensource/spline/, the spline function is in a single hearder file is really easy to use.---## Dependencies* cmake >= 3.5  * All OSes: [click here for installation instructions](https://cmake.org/install/)* make >= 4.1  * Linux: make is installed by default on most Linux distros  * Mac: [install Xcode command line tools to get make](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/features/)  * Windows: [Click here for installation instructions](http://gnuwin32.sourceforge.net/packages/make.htm)* gcc/g++ >= 5.4  * Linux: gcc / g++ is installed by default on most Linux distros  * Mac: same deal as make - [install Xcode command line tools]((https://developer.apple.com/xcode/features/)  * Windows: recommend using [MinGW](http://www.mingw.org/)* [uWebSockets](https://github.com/uWebSockets/uWebSockets)  * Run either `install-mac.sh` or `install-ubuntu.sh`.  * If you install from source, checkout to commit `e94b6e1`, i.e.    ```    git clone https://github.com/uWebSockets/uWebSockets     cd uWebSockets    git checkout e94b6e1    ```## Editor SettingsWe've purposefully kept editor configuration files out of this repo in order tokeep it as simple and environment agnostic as possible. However, we recommendusing the following settings:* indent using spaces* set tab width to 2 spaces (keeps the matrices in source code aligned)## Code StylePlease (do your best to) stick to [Google's C++ style guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html).## Project Instructions and RubricNote: regardless of the changes you make, your project must be buildable usingcmake and make!## Call for IDE Profiles Pull RequestsHelp your fellow students!We decided to create Makefiles with cmake to keep this project as platformagnostic as possible. Similarly, we omitted IDE profiles in order to ensurethat students don't feel pressured to use one IDE or another.However! I'd love to help people get up and running with their IDEs of choice.If you've created a profile for an IDE that you think other students wouldappreciate, we'd love to have you add the requisite profile files andinstructions to ide_profiles/. For example if you wanted to add a VS Codeprofile, you'd add:* /ide_profiles/vscode/.vscode* /ide_profiles/vscode/README.mdThe README should explain what the profile does, how to take advantage of it,and how to install it.Frankly, I've never been involved in a project with multiple IDE profilesbefore. I believe the best way to handle this would be to keep them out of therepo root to avoid clutter. My expectation is that most profiles will includeinstructions to copy files to a new location to get picked up by the IDE, butthat's just a guess.One last note here: regardless of the IDE used, every submitted project muststill be compilable with cmake and make./## How to write a READMEA well written README file can enhance your project and portfolio.  Develop your abilities to create professional README files by completing [this free course](https://www.udacity.com/course/writing-readmes--ud777).py files to a new location to get picked up by the IDE, butthat's just a guess.One last note here: regardless of the IDE used, every submitted project muststill be compilable with cmake and make./## How to write a READMEA well written README file can enhance your project and portfolio.  Develop your abilities to create professional README files by completing [this free course](https://www.udacity.com/course/writing-readmes--ud777).